[ADR] ADR-052: Tendermint Mode (#4302)
tendermint/tendermint: docs/architecture/adr-052-tendermint-mode.md

# ADR 052: Tendermint Mode

## Changelog

* 27-11-2019: Initial draft from ADR-051
* 13-01-2020: Separate ADR Tendermint Mode from ADR-051

## Context

> - Fullnode mode : fullnode mode does not have any capability to participate on consensus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fullnode mode: fullnode mode does not have the capability to become a validator. 
```

I believe participating in consensus is also passing consensus messages around correct?

- Validator mode : this mode is exactly same as existing state machine behavior. sync without voting on consensus, and participate consensus when fully synced

> - Seed mode : lightweight seed mode only for maintain an address book, p2p like [TenderSeed](https://gitlab.com/polychainlabs/tenderseed)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Seed mode : lightweight seed mode maintaining an address book, p2p like [TenderSeed](https://gitlab.com/polychainlabs/tenderseed)
```

## Decision

> We would like to suggest a simple Tendermint mode abstraction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We would like to suggest a simple Tendermint mode abstraction. These modes will live under one binary, and when initializing a node the user will be able to specify which node they would like to create.
```

maybe something like this? just to expand a bit more

- Which reactor, component to include for each node
    - fullnode *(default)*
        - switch, transport

>         - all reactors

Reviewer: mempool are considered reactors to my knowledge, maybe better as
```suggestion
        - reactors
          - mempool
          - consensus
          - ...
```
then listing all the reactors involved

        - mempool, state

>         - rpc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - rpc (safe connections only)
```
?

        - *~~no privValidator(priv_validator_key.json, priv_validator_state.json)~~*
    - validator
        - switch, transport
        - all reactors
        - mempool, state
        - rpc
        - with privValidator(priv_validator_key.json, priv_validator_state.json)
    - seed
        - switch, transport
        - only pexReactor
- Configuration, cli command
    - We would like to suggest by introducing `mode` parameter in `config.toml` and cli
    - `mode = "{{ .BaseConfig.Mode }}"` in `config.toml`
    - `tendermint node --mode validator`  in cli
    - fullnode | validator | seed (default: "fullnode")
- RPC modification
    - `host:26657/status`
        - return empty `validator_info` when fullnode mode

>         - add return `mode` of this node

Reviewer: this issue may have some thoughts on introducing which mode the node is in. https://github.com/tendermint/tendermint/issues/2817

Author: how about adding only line `return empty validator_info when fullnode mode` without line `add return mode of this node`?

Reviewer: Yea this is starting to play into a redesign of the rpc (possibly having different levels, that is out of scope) so for now I'd say that is fine.

# ADR 052: Tendermint Mode

## Changelog

* 27-11-2019: Initial draft from ADR-051
* 13-01-2020: Separate ADR Tendermint Mode from ADR-051

## Context

- Fullnode mode: fullnode mode does not have the capability to become a validator. 
- Validator mode : this mode is exactly same as existing state machine behavior. sync without voting on consensus, and participate consensus when fully synced
- Seed mode : lightweight seed mode maintaining an address book, p2p like [TenderSeed](https://gitlab.com/polychainlabs/tenderseed)

## Decision

We would like to suggest a simple Tendermint mode abstraction. These modes will live under one binary, and when initializing a node the user will be able to specify which node they would like to create.

- Which reactor, component to include for each node
    - fullnode *(default)*
        - switch, transport
        - reactors
          - mempool
          - consensus

>           - ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          - evidence
          - blockchain
          - p2p/pex
```

>         - mempool, state

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

        - rpc (safe connections only)
        - *~~no privValidator(priv_validator_key.json, priv_validator_state.json)~~*
    - validator
        - switch, transport

>         - all reactors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - reactors
          - mempool
          - consensus
          - evidence
          - blockchain
          - p2p/pex
```

>         - mempool, state

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>         - rpc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - rpc (safe connections only)
```

        - with privValidator(priv_validator_key.json, priv_validator_state.json)
    - seed
        - switch, transport

>         - only pexReactor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - reactor
           - p2p/pex
```
